Kafka ZooKeeper (#57625)
ClickHouse/ClickHouse: docs/en/engines/table-engines/integrations/kafka.md

Example:

``` sql
CREATE TABLE experimental_kafka (key UInt64, value UInt64)
ENGINE = Kafka('localhost:19092', 'my-topic', 'my-consumer', 'JSONEachRow')
SETTINGS
  kafka_keeper_path = '/clickhouse/{database}/experimental_kafka',
  kafka_replica_name = 'r1'
SETTINGS allow_experimental_kafka_store_offsets_in_keeper=1;
```

Or to utilize the `uuid` and `replica` macros similarly to ReplicatedMergeTree:

``` sql
CREATE TABLE experimental_kafka (key UInt64, value UInt64)
ENGINE = Kafka('localhost:19092', 'my-topic', 'my-consumer', 'JSONEachRow')
SETTINGS
  kafka_keeper_path = '/clickhouse/{database}/{uuid}',
  kafka_replica_name = '{replica}'
SETTINGS allow_experimental_kafka_store_offsets_in_keeper=1;
```

> ### Known limitations

Author: One more limitation: no support for `system.kafka_consumers` table yet.

- For row-based formats the number of rows in one Kafka message can be controlled by setting `kafka_max_rows_per_message`.
- For block-based formats we cannot divide block into smaller parts, but the number of rows in one block can be controlled by general setting [max_block_size](../../../operations/settings/settings.md#setting-max_block_size).

## Experimental engine to store committed offsets in ClickHouse Keeper

If `allow_experimental_kafka_offsets_storage_in_keeper` is enabled, then two more settings can be specified to the Kafka table engine:
 - `kafka_keeper_path` specifies the path to the table in ClickHouse Keeper
 - `kafka_replica_name` specifies the replica name in ClickHouse Keeper

> Either both of the settings must be specified or neither of them. When both of them are specified, then a new, experimental Kafka engine will be used. The new engine doesn't depend on storing the committed offsets in Kafka,but stores them in ClickHouse Keeper. It still tries to commit the offsets to Kafka, but it only depends on those offsets when the table is created. In any other circumstances (table is restarted, or recovered after some error) the offsets stored in ClickHouse Keeper will be used to consume messages from. Apart from the committed offset, it also stores how many messages were consumed in the last batch, so if the insert fails, the same amount of messages will be consumed, thus enabling deduplication if necessary.

Author: The emphasis regarding the offset if more about that we will continue consuming messages from that offset rather then which source do we consume messages. I rephrased the sentence to put emphasis on this. Please feel free to correct it.

Example:

``` sql
CREATE TABLE experimental_kafka (key UInt64, value UInt64)
ENGINE = Kafka('localhost:19092', 'my-topic', 'my-consumer', 'JSONEachRow')
SETTINGS
  kafka_keeper_path = '/clickhouse/{database}/experimental_kafka',
  kafka_replica_name = 'r1'
SETTINGS allow_experimental_kafka_store_offsets_in_keeper=1;
```

Or to utilize the `uuid` and `replica` macros similarly to ReplicatedMergeTree:

``` sql
CREATE TABLE experimental_kafka (key UInt64, value UInt64)
ENGINE = Kafka('localhost:19092', 'my-topic', 'my-consumer', 'JSONEachRow')
SETTINGS
  kafka_keeper_path = '/clickhouse/{database}/{uuid}',
  kafka_replica_name = '{replica}'
SETTINGS allow_experimental_kafka_store_offsets_in_keeper=1;
```

### Known limitations

As the new engine is experimental, it is not production ready yet. There are few known limitations of the implementation:

>  - The biggest limitation is the engine doesn't support direct reading from Kafka topic (insertion works, but reading doesn't), thus the direct `SELECT` queries will fail.

Author: by "insertion" I meant direct writes to the Kafka engine. So maybe this way:
```suggestion
 - The biggest limitation is the engine doesn't support direct reading. Direct writes and reading from the engine using materialized views works, but direct reading doesn't. As a result, all direct `SELECT` queries will fail.
```
